# Peernotify: pseudonymous notification service

## Introduction
In the last few years, there is a lot of movement towards decentralization
of the Internet services. Implementations of the ideas from 90's cypherpunk 
movement, namely persistent, immutable, content-addressed information 
resources, zero-trust economic activity tools like electronic cash and 
peer-to-peer marketplaces etc., have unexpectedly emerged within the 
cryptographic community of the last decade. Two of most prominent technologies
of that kind are distributed hash tables which are already widely adopted for
file sharing in the *BitTorrent* protocol, and more recent cryptocurrencies
like Bitcoin, which builds on ideas of Wei Dai, Adam Back and David Chaum and
is considered one of the greatest inventions since the Internet itself.

Mixing this technologies spawns a new wave of Internet services that 
eliminate trust in many areas of our life. We no longer have to rely on 
trustworthiness of a central authority to handle economic activities such 
as financial operations and trading, because there are cryptographic protocols 
for doing it peer-to-peer, without external control, while providing much
higher levels of security and confidentiality. Peer-to-peer hypermedia
protocols like [*IPFS*][1], [*Blockstack*][2], etc allow service providers
to securely and persistently distribute content in the network, effectively
no longer requiring them to be "online" all the time.

The problem inherent here is that possibility to be offline most of the time,
as your data resides in persistent global hypermedia environment, removes
interactivity from it. Assuming pseudonymous identities, it is impossible to 
reach the originator of the content, as mapping from his unique ID to his
real identity is valid only within the peer-to-peer system at hand. 
**Peernotify** protocol proposes a solution based on one-time tokens that can
be non-interactively generated by clients and shared with their peers, who in
turn can use them to both pay the service and send ping messages.

## Peernotify protocol

**Peernotify** service API consists of three main functions:
- Register
- Verify
- Forward

Register and Verify functions are meant for client and represent two phases
of registration process, while Forward is an endpoint for pers

### Registration
To register, user must submit his *contact* data to the service. This can be
done via JSON API or via webform. Contact data is simply a list of tuples of
the form `(<medium>, <address>)`, where `<medium>` is a short string that 
describes some common communication protocol, like SMTP or Signal, and 
`<address>` is an abstract identifier of the user within that protocol, like
actual email address or phone number, for SMTP or Signal respectively.

Example of contact data in JSON format:
```json
[
    {
        "id":   "smtp",
        "addr": "me.here@example.net"
    },
    {
        "id":   "signal",
        "addr": "+380930000000"
    }
]
```

After contact data is submitted, it is placed in a temporary data storage and
verification requests are sent to each of the addresses according to the 
specified protocols. From now on contact data is invalid until verified.

### Verification
Verification process must be performed by the user to confirm that for each 
identifier and communication protocol specified, it truly belongs to him 
(we suppose that immediate access to the communication system under that 
identifier is a sufficient confirmation). Verification is done via requesting
the user to perform an HTTP request (with GET method) to the specific path at
the service's verification endpoint. Path consists of verification dispatch
subpath and a string that encodes a randomly generated 256-bit key in a 
*base58* encoding. Temporary data storage maps this key to the contact data
and once HTTP request is performed, data at that key is moved to permanent
storage and at this point it becomes valid and can be used to forward ping
messages.


### Forwarding
TODO


## Analysis
TODO

## Conclusion
TODO

## References
TODO


[1]: https://ipfs.io/
[2]: https://blockstack.org/

[BIP32]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki
[BIP47]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0047.mediawiki
